W-19473121-hsa-component-partial-kt (#322)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: hybrid-standalone/modules/ROOT/pages/managing-servers.adoc

To renew a certificate for servers in a cluster or group:

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager*.
. Click *Servers*.
. Verify that the server status is `Running`.
. Click the group or cluster name.
+
image::rtm-server-certificate-group-name.png["Select Group or Cluster"]
. Check the radio button to select the server or servers you want to update.
. From the *Actions* menu, select *Renew Certificate*.
+
image::rtm-server-certificate-group-select-server.png["Select Server"]
. Select the checkbox to confirm your choice, and then click *Renew*.
+
image::rtm-server-certificate-group-renew.png["Confirm Renewal"]
. Check *Certificate expiration date* to verify that the certificate renewed successfully.

If the *Renew Certificate* option in the *Actions* pull-down menu isn't available after performing the previous steps, xref:installing-and-configuring-runtime-manager-agent#update-the-agent.adoc[update your *Agent* version].
The *Server certificate renewal* feature, which enables you to renew server certificates directly from Runtime Manager, was introduced by Runtime Manager 2.8.4. This feature requires Runtime Manager Agent 1.10.0 or later.

> You can hover over the *Renew Certificate* option in the *Actions* pull-down menu, and a tooltip in the UI indicates you the minimum required Runtime Agent version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hover over the *Renew Certificate* option in the *Actions* pull-down menu, and a tooltip in the UI indicates you the minimum required Runtime Agent version.
```

[NOTE]
Renewing server certificates requires a manual runtime restart to start using the new certificates.

If renewing the unexpired certificate via Runtime Manager fails, follow the steps in <<Renew a Certificate via the Command Line>>.

=== Renew a Certificate via the Command Line

> You can use this method to renew a certificate even after it has expired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this method to renew a certificate even after it has expired.
```

== Configure Server Properties

Runtime Manager enables you to view, create, and manage server properties for your hybrid standalone instances. Server properties are configuration values that control JVM behavior and application settings across your Mule runtime environments.

=== Property Types

* Custom Properties 

** Custom properties are user-defined key-value pairs that configure JVM container settings for Mule instances. For example, you can set `ENV=qa` to specify the server environment or `MAX_HEAP=2g` for memory allocation. +
** Custom properties are stored in the `$MULE_HOME/conf/wrapper.conf` file on the system where Mule is installed.

* Application Properties +

** Application properties defined in Runtime Manager override application properties in `mule-app.properties`
** Application properties defined in the `mule-app.properties` file override server properties specified in Runtime Manager

* Discovered Properties +
Discovered properties are automatically detected configuration values from the remote Mule environment, including:

** JVM arguments
** Environment properties
** System properties

> Runtime Manager retrieves these values through the Runtime Manager agent, which queries the `System` Java class on the remote server. By default, auto-discovery is disabled for security. When enabled, Runtime Manager stores an encrypted version of these properties in its internal database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Runtime Manager retrieves these values through the Runtime Manager agent, which queries the `System` Java class on the remote server. By default, auto-discovery is disabled for security reasons. When enabled, Runtime Manager stores an encrypted version of these properties in its internal database.
```
another option:
"...security purposes."

To fully disable this feature, contact your MuleSoft customer success representative.

=== View and Manage Properties

To view server properties:

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager*.
. Click *Servers*.
. Click the *Type* column to display the details pane.
. Click *Manage Server*, *Manage Group*, or *Manage Cluster*.
. On the *Settings* page, click *Properties*:
+
.The arrow shows the *Properties* tab on the *Settings* page.
image::rtm-server-properties-tab.png[Properties tab]

From the *Properties* tab, you can:

* Search for existing properties
* View custom and discovered properties
* Create new custom properties
* Edit existing properties

=== View Discovered Properties

To view discovered properties, select *Discovered Properties* and then click *Enable Auto-Discovery*:

.The screen shows the *Discovered Properties* and *Enable Auto-Discovery* buttons on the *Properties* tab.
image::rtm-server-enable-autodiscovery.png[Discovered Properties and Enable Auto-Discovery buttons]

> The server state must be Running to auto-discover server properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The server must be running to auto-discover server properties.
```
or: 
"The server must be in running mode to..."

If RUNNING is the exact state lavel:
The server state must be `Running` to..."

=== Create Custom Properties

To create new custom properties:

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager*.
. Click *Servers*.
. Click the *Type* column to display the details pane.
. Click *Manage Server*, *Manage Group*, or *Manage Cluster*.
. On the *Settings* page, click *Properties*.
. Click *Custom Properties*.
. Enter the property name in the *Key* field.
. Enter the property value in the *Value* field.
. Click *Save*.

After creating a custom property, restart the server to apply the new property to the Mule configuration.

== Renew Server Certificates

Registering a Mule server in Anypoint Runtime Manager requires a valid certificate provisioned
and signed by Runtime Manager.
The certificate ensures secure communication between Runtime Manager and the Runtime Manager agent.

When a server certificate expires, Runtime Manager displays `Disconnected` in the *Status* column
for the server on the *Servers* page.
The `mule_agent.log` file displays a message like the following:

> * For Mule 3:

Reviewer 2: Mule 3.x is EOL. Docs are archived.

+
image::rtm-server-standalone-name.png[Select Server]
. Click *Settings*.
. From the *Actions* menu, select *Renew Certificate*.
+
image::rtm-server-standalone-settings.png[Settings Tab]
. Select the checkbox to confirm your choice, and then click *Renew*.
+
image::rtm-server-standalone-renew.png[Confirm Renewal]
. Check *Certificate expiration date* to verify that the certificate is renewed successfully, and restart Mule runtime to start using the new certificates.

To renew a certificate for servers in a cluster or group:

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager*.
. Click *Servers*.
. Verify that the server status is `Running`.
. Click the group or cluster name.
+
image::rtm-server-certificate-group-name.png[Select Group or Cluster]
. Check the radio button to select the server or servers you want to update.
. From the *Actions* menu, select *Renew Certificate*.
+
image::rtm-server-certificate-group-select-server.png[Select Server]
. Select the checkbox to confirm your choice, and then click *Renew*.
+
image::rtm-server-certificate-group-renew.png[Confirm Renewal]
. Check *Certificate expiration date* to verify that the certificate renewed successfully.

> If the *Renew Certificate* option in the *Actions* pull-down menu is not available after performing the previous steps, you may need to xref:installing-and-configuring-runtime-manager-agent#update-the-agent.adoc[update your *Agent* version].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the *Renew Certificate* option in the *Actions* pull-down menu isn't available after performing the previous steps, xref:installing-and-configuring-runtime-manager-agent#update-the-agent.adoc[update your *Agent* version].
```
